This is a unique conversation. It's my
[music] second with Alan Waxman, the
founder and leader of Sixth Street, one
of the largest private capital
investment firms in the world. Him and I
have been going back and forth about the
history of financial guidelines and
incentives and how those systems through
[music] time shape the system that we
live in today and shape outcomes in the
financial markets. We thought it would
be a neat opportunity to walk through in
great detail what he calls system one,
two, and three, going all the way back
to 1933 and the initial regulation
Glass-Steagall, which kicked off system
one. We then go through system two from
2000 to 2008 in the global financial
crisis, and then go into great detail
for the system that we're living in
[music] today. The reason all this
history is interesting to me is that
ultimately it's about the incentives and
[music] the ways that investors and
investing firms make money. We have this
great conversation in about what Alan
calls the factory model of investing,
which has defined by the
industrialization of both raising money
and deploying money, sort of the
opposite of the old-school artisanal
investment model that's entirely [music]
focused on earning outstanding
investment returns. His historical
perspective and lens on what's driving
outcomes, I think is useful information
and history for all of us as we try to
navigate one of [music] the most dynamic
periods of creative destruction in
capital markets history. Please enjoy my
second conversation with Alan Waxman.
We're facing [music] one of the most
interesting capital market setups of all
time alongside of one of the most
interesting just world environments,
geopolitics, technology,
and you and I have talked a lot about
the shaping forces that will determine
how things play out from here.
And one of those things that I want to
start with, we'll talk about AI, we'll
talk about geopolitics, some other big
things that that might be shaping the
world, but there's one that is probably
under discussed that you are in a very
unique position to teach us about, which
is the uh what you call the guardrails
and the incentives of the financial
system itself. And the way that this The
reason we're doing this today is so much
discussion of private credit, direct
lending,
things happening in private markets
that's getting a lot of attention in the
news. You can see it in stock prices of
certain companies. And I think the whole
world's grappling with this, trying to
figure out what the hell is going on and
what to expect. And you are a deep
historian of of [snorts] this topic. And
so I thought it would be a really cool
opportunity just to have you teach us
all about this important factor in
what's going to happen [clears throat]
in the future. So, what is your kind of
general frame for the financial system
and how it impacts the world? So,
there's a lot going on in the news, and
what I'd say is
what you're reading in the news today
are the symptoms,
but not really the root cause. And
as an investor, like when we start try
to figure out what's happening in the
current moment, which is we're
definitely in a moment right now, we do
two things. First of all, we think about
it from the standpoint of like how did
this get here? What's the history of it?
How do we get here to really figure out
the current moment and also determine
where we're going. So, I think we'll
I'll talk about a little bit of the
history of how we got here. And then the
second thing, and you hit this, is
looking at everything through systems.
And when we think about systems, we
think about the incentive system,
guardrails, and market structure. First
of all, I'm not an economic historian,
okay? So, what I'm going to do is tell
the story of history as it relates to
the current moment. I think you got to
go back to like pre-1929 crash.
And when you think about the American
financial system, it's basically like
the Wild Wild West. It was pretty
unregulated, and there were many causes
of the 1929 crash. There was, you know,
poor monetary policy, agricultural
recession,
uh margin lending, but one of the main
parts that caused it is you had this
idea of commercial banks, so think about
commercial banks. So, individuals go put
their money into a bank as deposits.
Commercial banks basically were in the
same house as
principal risk taking activity, so the
investment banks. So, these were all
part of the same thing. And there's as
you can imagine when that happens,
there's a massive conflict of interest.
So, really the story starts for the
current moment, starts in 1933. So, this
is after the 1929 crash. This is after
9,000 banks failed. Think about that.
9,000 banks failed. Crazy. 1933
Glass-Steagall, probably one of the most
important regulations that took place.
And also the establishment of the FDIC,
which basically insured deposits for
individuals at banks up to a certain
limit. And Glass-Steagall basically said
these commercial banks, which was
deposit taking institutions from
individuals that got really burned in
the 1929 crash, basically become
separated from the investment banks or
at the time, think about uh principal
risk taking, so think about in today's
parlay, it's private capital, investment
banks, those got separated.
And that's kind of the first system.
When I think about the first system that
explains kind of where we got to the
current moment, I'll let's just call it
system one.
>> System one, yeah. 1933 to 1999. Yep. And
when you look at post World War II with
this separation of commercial banks and
investment banks, you basically have
really after post World War II, kind of
50 years a pretty stable system other
than the S&L crisis in the 1980s, which
was a big event, it was a pretty good
system.
But the system wasn't optimized for
economic growth.
Because you only had you really a a
pretty conservative with a lot of
guardrails commercial bank providing
finance. Yeah, just lower risk appetite,
yeah. So, it's a low risk appetite. And
again, because one, the fixed income
market hadn't developed, which is part
of the story here, but also because
investment banks were more in the moving
business than the storage business.
Meaning, they were like pricing
securities to basically sell to other
people. They weren't pricing it to hold
for their own balance sheet.
Now, that started to change as we get
into the '80s, but again, broadly
speaking for this first system from 1933
to 1999,
it it was working. It just wasn't
optimized. And your takeaway from this,
the lesson from this is like with really
good guardrails, you can get long
stability. You can get long stability,
but again, you also have to think about
job creation and economic growth. And I
think if there's one criticism of the
system, which by the way started which
is why the Glass-Steagall Act got
repealed in 1999, I can talk about why
it got repealed, what what sort of the
steps leading up to that, is that it
wasn't optimized. And as you go to a
more globalized world and you're
competing with say European banks, you
become less and less competitive. So, in
a non-globalized world, it was probably
okay, but as we got to more globalized
world, it wasn't really optimized to
maximize economic growth for the
country.
>> Okay, so we get to the mid, you know,
mid-late '90s. What happens in addition
to like, you know, new competitive
pressures? Just like walk us through the
transition into what becomes system two.
So, at the time, again, we've got
separation of investment banks and
commercial banks. All of a sudden,
European banks started to who weren't
part of the same Glass-Steagall
regulation, they started to unite with
each other. So, commercial banks and
investment banks in Europe started to
come together, which started to put the
American commercial banks at a big
disadvantage. And not only were they
coming together, but they were also
taking on more leverage than what was
allowed with the guardrails of American
commercial banks. So, as a result of
that, as you can imagine,
all the commercial banks and many market
participants are saying, "Hey, we can't
really compete against some of these
European guys." In 1998,
Deutsche Bank bought Bankers Trust, and
that was kind of like
>> Like a moment.
>> That was definitely a moment. You had
Citibank announce that it was merging
with Travelers, which at the time when
they announced the merger, it would
actually wasn't allowed under
Glass-Steagall, under the current
regulation. So, that's what sort of led
up to it. So, I think it's a couple
things: globalization, like now all of a
sudden you're competing against
Europeans who have Think about they can
provide services and balance sheet and
capital. You're at a pretty big
disadvantage. So, the system once
started to kind of get less competitive
as we as we moved into a globalized
world, and that sort of led to 1999
when Glass-Steagall was repealed.
>> And so, and so what comes in its place?
It's basically just deregulation. It's
It's deregulation, and literally after
that you saw literally a wave of mergers
of combining commercial banks and
investment banks. You saw JP Morgan
Chase. There's many others, but there's
always with everything there's knock-on
effects. So, that came together, created
these powerhouses that could compete
with what was going on in Europe, but
now you had all these investment banks
that weren't commercial banks. So, think
about my old firm Goldman Sachs and many
others. Now they had to start competing
where they weren't They didn't have
access to cheap capital because they
weren't a commercial bank. They had to
compete with combined investment banks
and commercial banks because a lot of
the commercial banks both in Europe and
the US, they started to use their
balance sheet to get investment banking
business. So, what did all the
investment banks do? They started to
leverage up. And that's one of the other
stories is leading into the system. It's
sort of the development of the
fixed-income market. So, think about
corporate bonds, mortgage-backed
securities, asset-backed securities,
sovereign debt. That went literally from
the '80s to the '90s. Went from like $7
trillion dollars to $14 trillion. So,
these are all financing mechanisms that
could finance the investment banks to
basically allow them to leverage up.
And that's what started to happen. So,
literally from the time of
Glass-Steagall being repealed, you had
commercial banks uniting with investment
banks both in US and Europe. You had
leverage going up like leverage went up
for commercial banks in some cases 20,
30 times leverage. All the investment
banks were operating with leverage
because they had to take on leverage to
be able to compete with the combined
commercial banks investment banks.
And then 9 years later, what happened?
You had the GFC. Now, just to be clear,
there's a lot is a polarizing debate of
how much attribution
the repeal of Glass-Steagall had on the
GFC. Yeah, what do you think? I think
there was definitely some attribution to
it. I don't think that was clearly not
the only reason. But my view it's
it's some combination, but ultimately it
had to do with the system and the set of
incentives and in that case after
putting all this together, a lack of
guardrails that existed in sort of the
first system we spoke about.
>> And in system two is is the reminder I
guess or the lesson that it's the
combination of liquidity or asset
liability mismatches and leverage that
basically is the cocktail for every
historical financial crisis like one of
those two or both are involved? Leverage
always plays a role, but
the and they're all connected, but just
the mismatching
of assets and liabilities. You could be
the best investor in the world making
the best illiquid investments, but if
someone comes and asks for your money in
a quarter when you haven't had time to
actually have that investment play out
the way that that you underwrote it to
do,
you're going to be a bad investor you're
going to get caught out of your option
and you could might have to sell it at a
deep discount. So, I think it's I think
there's a few things. I think it's one,
anytime you bring
retail or individuals, so think about
people depositing into a bank next to
principal risk-taking activity. I think
that's one thing. I think the second
thing is just anytime you mismatch
assets and liabilities. And then the
third thing, again, going back to what
we talked about earlier is like, what
are the incentives, what are the
guardrails, and what's the market
structure?
>> Yeah. Most software companies try to
maximize your time on their app to juice
engagement. [music]
Ramp does the exact opposite. Ramp
understands that no one wants to spend
hours filing expense reports, reviewing
expense reports, and checking for policy
violations. So, they built their tools
to give that time back [music] using AI
to automate 85% of expense reviews with
99% accuracy. And since Ramp saves
companies 5%, [music] it's no wonder
that Shopify runs on Ramp, Stripe runs
on Ramp, and my business does, too. To
see what happens when you eliminate the
busy work, check out ramp.com/invest.
[music]
OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic, Perplexity,
and Vercel all have something in common.
They all use WorkOS. And here's why. To
achieve [music] enterprise adoption at
scale, you have to deliver on core
capabilities like SSO, SCIM, RBAC, and
audit logs. That's where WorkOS comes
in. Instead [music] of spending months
building these mission-critical
capabilities yourself, you can just use
WorkOS APIs to gain all of them [music]
on day zero. That's why so many of the
top AI teams you hear about already run
on WorkOS. WorkOS is the fastest way to
become enterprise-ready and stay focused
on what matters most, your [music]
product. Visit workos.com to get
started.
Every investor should know [music] about
Rogo, because Rogo AI's platform is not
just another generic chatbot. Instead,
it was designed to support how Wall
Street bankers and investors actually
work, from [music] sourcing, diligence,
and modeling, to turning analysis into
deliverables. For me, three key things
differentiate Rogo. First, it connects
[music] directly to your system, so it
can work with your actual data. Second,
it understands your workflows, how work
really happens across a deal or an
investment. And third, it runs
end-to-end and produces real outputs the
way [music] the best people do.
Auditable spreadsheets, investment
memos, diligence materials, and slide
decks that match your standards. This
all comes from the fact that Rogo is
built by finance professionals for
finance professionals. [music]
And it's already being adopted by some
of the most demanding institutions in
the world. To learn more, visit
rogo.ai/invest.
Okay, so then what happens? So obviously
we know about, you know, global
financial crisis is terrifying and um
the reaction is uh is many things, but
what is installed post-GFC that sets the
seeds for I guess what we'll call system
the current system, system three. So in
2010, two things happened.
First is Basel III was passed by G20
nations. I'll explain what that is. And
the second thing is Dodd-Frank. Yeah.
When you think about Basel III, so this
applies across all commercial banks. And
by the way, a number of investment banks
that were not commercial banks were
forced to become commercial banks
as result of this.
Those
commercial banks,
and this is really a Basel III thing,
had restrictions on capital, which for
your audience, think about that as
leverage. So the amount that they could
be leveraged up, so they didn't get
leveraged up 30 to one or 40 to one like
they did pre-GFC.
And the second thing is
restrictions on liquidity. And liquidity
is basically through a bunch of shock
scenarios, a bunch of things going
wrong, do you have enough liquidity to
meet all your obligations? So I think
that was that that was a key part of it.
Dodd-Frank was more aimed at in the
Volcker Rule that that didn't really
last that long. It was really aimed at
the principal investing activity. I
would say it's more for the commercial
banks. It was more Basel III, but
Dodd-Frank played a big role certainly
in the short term.
>> Yeah. So how would you how would you
explain just system three and its
guardrails and incentives to to people
out there? So system three,
in my opinion
is and we've took like 125 years to get
here. Yeah.
>> Yeah. It has the potential to be the
best system American finance
has ever had. Because when you think
about commercial banks and
deposit-taking institutions, by the way,
that are
basically backstopped by the government,
insured by the government through the
FDIC. So, think about GFC, there was a
bailout, the taxpayer bailout. That's
not good for society. That's not good
for the middle class. That was not a
good outcome for America. For those
institutions having restrictions on
capital or leverage and liquidity where
they're doing sort of lower risk-taking
activity to finance a system, that's a
good pillar of any financial system.
Converse on the other side, and this is
where the current moment starts to come
in, is now you've got private capital
and coming in. So, when you think about
private capital, think about pension
funds, sovereign wealth funds,
endowments, insurance company providing
capital in the beginning of this sort of
this this this period sort of called
system three post-Basel three post-GFC,
that's what resulted in the growth of
the private capital industry because it
was filling in the gaps. So, think about
principal risk-taking activities,
private capital was filling in the gap.
And with the exception exception of
hedge funds and really REITs, those were
matched assets and liabilities. So, you
think about private equity, private real
estate, private infrastructure, private
credit, they never had someone that
could literally ask for their money back
or they didn't have depositors saying
they need to get their money back. They
can't get it back because of the liquid
assets. So, that just to put it in
context, private capital from pre-GFC to
post-GFC is about 2 trillion pre-GFC.
It's grown to about 14 15 trillion. It's
insane. Private credit, which which in
the news today,
um grew from 500 billion to about 2
trillion what it is today. So, massive
growth in this
in this sort of filled the gap for that
principal risk-taking capital, provide
risk capital to all parts of the
American economy, which is a good thing.
And I would say up until 2018,
the system was working great. You had
commercial banks, deposit-taking
institution, effectively backstopped by
the government, doing safer things, and
then you had matched assets and
liabilities where you an investor, a set
of assets couldn't get caught out of
their option providing the risk capital.
That's a pretty good system.
And until
we started to see behavioral changes in
2018. Just to like put a pin on
an elegant, well-designed system of
guardrails and incentives.
The commercial kind of model where it's
lower risk
and protected or backstopped, and higher
risk-seeking capital where the assets
and liabilities are matched. It is a
good system.
>> It's a good system.
>> Yeah. All crises generally are caused
from not credit issues or other issues.
There's They might start in other
issues, but it's it's mismatched assets
and liabilities. So, you mentioned this
year,
2018, as being a a pivotal point. I want
to explain that transition, but
it feels important you and I have talked
about this this notion of yours of the
factory model before. May May We're
going to go into that in more detail,
but just to to plant the seed in
people's mind, just define the factory
model just just briefly, and then I want
to talk about how we What happened to
get us kind of transitioned in the
incentives towards that model?
>> Sure.
So, the way that we define the factory
model in our industry is there's two
parts to it, and then there's an output.
The two parts to it are First part is
the industrialization
of the fundraising process, right? Say
liability gathering. So, literally
raising as much as much capital as you
possibly can.
It literally as fast as you can. So,
that's sort of the industrialization of
the liability side of the fundraising
side. That comes first, and then what
comes second is then, as a result of
that, the industrialization of the asset
side. So, think about investing. So, if
you're on an investment team, and all
sudden your firm has
a lot of money to invest, and you know,
like it's just sitting there, and maybe
there's a tick maybe there's a timestamp
on it. All sudden your behavior has to
start to change because you have to
deploy that money much quicker. And
what's the best way to raise a lot of
capital quickly? Biggest capital source
is direct.
>> It's raised simple. So, make it very
simple. Make it very narrow because if
it's wide, like that's too hard to
explain. So, you want to make it as
narrow as possible.
And you're also willing to take uh
let's say make concessions on the type
of capital you raise. So, meaning maybe
it's got a term where they can ask for
your money back. So, it starts to you
start instead of like perfectly mass
assets liabilities, maybe you're willing
to start to not have perfectly matched
assets and liabilities because you want
to raise it as fast as possible. And
again, when people hear this, they're
going to think I'm only talking about
the bigger firms in our industry, but it
filtered down to mid-size firms, smaller
firms for a whole bunch of reasons. But
this whole factory model behavior
started to reveal itself in 2018. And
and just to draw like a visual the
visual that's coming to mind on the
asset side, and again, we'll come back
to both these ideas in more detail, but
I think of like an artisan making like a
horse saddle or something by hand, and
then I get an order for 100,000 horse
saddles. Like I can't make it by hand. I
got to make a factory. That is the exact
way to think about it cuz it's a
different model when you're building
that horse saddle versus you get a
massive order. But one point that's
important is that it starts always on
the liability side, and then it goes to
the asset side, and then you get kind of
the current moment that we're in that I
know we're going to talk about.
>> And it starts on the liability side
because why? Because if you just all
sudden go to that example, it's a really
good example of the the horse saddle,
and all sudden if you don't have like a
factory that can produce 100,000 on the
on the artisanal side, you're not ever
having to think about it. Like you could
have an industrialization of the asset
side, but if you don't have the
liability if you're not liability if
your liability constrained, you're not
going to change behavior because you
don't have the capital to go do that.
You'll run out of money in
>> Yeah, yeah. 5 days. So, it's got to
start on the liability side where you
raise all the money, then you have it,
then the behavioral change starts. So,
these two things it's first liability
side, it starts the industrialization,
and as a result of that, it goes to the
asset side. Yeah.
Um which is interesting because
basically, I don't know if you add up
every conversation I've ever had with an
investor, 98% of the time spent is on
the asset side. What are you investing
in and why?
>> Exactly. And by the way, that's okay if
you have perfectly asset match assets
and liabilities, it's okay. But let's
imagine a world where every investor you
spoke about had a term in their term in
their agreement after 3 years, they the
investor had the option to call their
money back. That would probably be
something you want to be talking about a
lot. By the way, prior to 2018,
going back to the just the the the the
financial system, the private capital
pool was pretty perfectly mass matched
assets and liabilities. And obviously,
like it would seem if everything was
frictionless and I was a GP, I would of
course have matched liabilities. Like if
I could just snap as much capital as I
wanted into existence, yeah, of course.
Like I want to have no problems. So,
what was going on What is the like
what's the series of events starting in
2018? What were the first examples of
this, and then how is it like evolved?
>> So, the first signal is underwriting.
Because investing or lending, you could
invest
as much money as you want. You could
lend as much money. That's not the
skill. The skill is investing. It's that
artisanal behavior. So,
when you start to see and again, it
wasn't just everyone talks about private
credit, but we started to see it in
every asset class. We started to see it
in real estate. We started to see it in
infrastructure. We started to see it in
private credit. It wasn't actually
bad, but we started to see behaviors
like terms that you would never do
because obviously when you lower your
underwriting standards, guess what
happens? Your deployment pace can go up.
You have an origination engine. You're
sourcing all these deals and let's say
you're an artisanal, you know, you you
might have a hit rate of, you know, half
a percent. You look at it. If you lower
your underwriting standards, your hit
rate on deals that you might do might go
to 2% or 3%. It's literally all in your
control. So, I think we started to see
it, but it wasn't it it it was just like
something we started to notice like
changes in behavior, but it wasn't like
full-fledged factory model
industrialization.
COVID happened and then post-COVID, it
was like game on for the factory model.
Both on the liability raising side
and also on the asset side. Literally
that behavior started to accelerate in
incredible ways right after COVID.
>> And was that mostly, I know this has
come from every the capital, the
liability has come from lots of
different pockets, but like my mind goes
to like the wealth channel that
everyone's talking about now.
Institutional channel as well. But yeah,
maybe put a little more color on like
like where it actually is came from is
coming from. So, what started to change
in 2018 is there are these things called
SMAs, so separately managed accounts.
So, prior to 2018, for the most part,
the private capital ecosystem was
basically funneled through funds. So,
think about commingled funds, lots of
investors come into one fund to pursue a
certain strategy. And all sudden this
started to be every conversation with
every LP was basically we want an SMA.
So we want more of fund of one just to
do
XYZ for us. You go to an LP, you
basically say, "Hey, we're going to
raise $500 million or $100 million and
we're going to do direct lending or
we're going to do private equity or
we're going to do real estate." And all
sudden there started to be a
proliferation where literally 3 years
prior it was not any conversation. Every
conversation was SMA. So what it is it
was just
the industry starting to raise capital
from the institutional channel. So not
wealth, the institutional channel. So
pension funds, sovereign wealth funds,
to some extent endowments, raise as much
capital as possible in the simplest
form. So it started on the institutional
side with SMAs, but the growth in in
institutional SMAs started really taper
off. So the next place where the
industry started to go was the wealth
space. And the wealth space in general
just for for just from a historical
perspective,
it is it is typically the
easiest to raise, the simplest to raise.
It's typically the cheapest. That
doesn't mean that they're not smart,
just the cheapest.
But the other characterization of the
wealth space is that it's always easiest
to raise in the pro-cyclical
environments when things are going
really well.
But when things start to not go well,
the wealth space or retail or
individuals want their money back
quickly. I just want to level set on
that. It's an important concept and
that's where it started to go.
And that's sort of got us to again, it
got us to one of the symptoms that are
into where here today. But the one thing
I want to point out and we'll talk about
the current moment is that the SMA was a
symptom.
What's going on in the wealth system is
it what the wealth system is is a
symptom. You know, when you think about,
you know, some of the stuff you see in
stuck private assets where there's so
many assets around the world in private
real estate, private infrastructure,
private equity that literally were were
were were companies or assets that were
bought in really post COVID of sort of
2021, early 2022, paid way too much.
Like they're stuck assets. All that
stuff is symptoms. The root cause of
this is the change of behavior patterns
of the factory model. That's like the
root cause and again, one of the things
that's
not frustrating but um
unfortunate is that
everything that is covered in the media
is just talking about the symptoms and
not actually getting to the root cause.
And again, when you think about history,
like
people talk about the symptoms but when
you start to diagnose what happened and
how we got there,
it had to do with the root cause and I
think that's something that hopefully
hopefully this conversation provides
some greater clarity on.
>> So, if I think about this model
and we've talked about maybe you can
mention like the the multiples that
markets had been putting on asset
management companies that we can, you
know, look at public markets and see
everything transparently, like how much
markets were willing to pay for the
equity in a in multiple basis and what
multiple what the multiple is of that
drives the incentive to to raise money.
That just feels like an important point
for
>> it's good to step back on what's what's
the system. So, what what are the
incentives? What are the guardrails?
What's the market structure? So, the
incentives in this story the the story
of the factory model starts to
correspond with FRE multiples. What is
FRE? FRE stands for fee related
earnings. Fee related earnings is
basically your management fee profit.
So, you raise a fund, it's got a
management fee on it, you got a set of
expenses and what's left over that is
your fee related earnings. These things
for our industry started, you know,
traded between in let's say early 2010s,
call it 10 to 15 times FRE.
In 2018 when all this started, it
stepped up to call it 15 to 20 times.
Obviously depends on the comp set. And
before this current moment, we're at,
you know, 25 to 30 times plus. That's
where it is. And by the way,
if you go back to the the early passing
of Basel III, Dodd- Frank, there was a
massive secular opportunity to fill the
gap that was left from commercial banks
being constrained. And then sort of it
found the system found it sort of steady
state place, but in order to keep
growing,
and again, it's the whole industry. What
do they do? Many participants adopted
the factory model.
>> And And is maybe the crass way to say
this like uh in the factory model, the
GP, the the founder of the firm, stands
to make a lot more money from the equity
of their GP than from like the carry
they would earn through investing or
something like this. What what I'd say
is that
look,
to be a CEO of one of these larger it's
hard.
You have a lot of different
constituents. It's really hard. And And
actually would as an investment firm,
sometimes it's good to grow and
sometimes it's not the good to grow. It
depends on what's the investment
environment, what's quality of your
liability structure,
what's the flexibility of your
investment model to sort of migrate to
where the best opportunities are. Like
it just depends, but I think it boils
down to
what's your clarity of purpose.
Like there are a number of people that
are public that I would say have not
uh adopted a factory model. There are a
number of people that are not public
that have adopted a factory model. Maybe
cuz they want to get bought by
one of the one of the larger guys or
maybe if you're mid-size firm and you
want to be one of them. The issue is
like just because you're large and just
because you're public, it doesn't mean
you've adopted the factory model. It's
like
what is your clarity of purpose? Now, if
your clarity of purpose is to be an
investment bank, then maybe that is what
you want to be, a factory model. But, if
you're going to do it, you better have a
really good risk management. I mean,
that's why you if you look at commercial
banks, I mean
Jamie Dimon is one of probably one of
the best risk managers of all time. What
he can do from a risk management
perspective, and you saw it in GFC, and
you see it other times in his career
he's a better risk manager, but the rest
of the industry that follows suit
because they want to be Jamie Dimon,
they might not be as good a risk
managers as him. And, it's the same
thing over here. So, it's not just the
larger guys cuz remember, the industry
always follows the larger guys, but it's
not certain that just because you're
public, just because you're large, that
you've actually adopted the factory
model.
>> What are the most common in your mind
telltale signs of a firm that's in this
model? Like, what what what what is a
firm that's adopted the factory model
look like that's distinct from like an
investment model based firm or
something? First of all, you know it
when you see it. You can see it in the
underwriting
of the deals. Like, we're in we're in
all a bunch of different asset classes.
You can see it. There's terms,
particularly like if you're a fixed
income investor, credit investor, cuz
you have capped upside, there's terms
you just don't give. A lot of those
terms have been given
>> given to facilitate deployment of
capital.
>> to fill up so to to point, you should
not do those terms because it's all good
when you're in a post-cycle environment,
but if you have capped upside and you're
earning a 10% return and all the
collateral that your 10% is based on can
literally be basically taken out of your
collateral package overnight. Or, for
that 10% return, you can be levered up
because let's say there's an AI
disruption and some software company
needs to reposition their business, and
they can basically leverage you up, so
you go from, you know, 50% loan to value
to 120% loan to value. Like, those are
just things that you shouldn't do for a
10% return.
>> Yeah, so the first time we did this we
talked a lot about return per unit of
risk.
>> Yeah. And so it basically sounds like
the thing happening in the factory model
is that that has fallen out of whack.
The objective function becomes more
deployment of capital because that ties
to size of my business, multiple on the
business, how much money I'm making as a
shareholder or whatever. And it's sort
of fundamentally divorced from the
investing equation, which is like return
units per unit of risk or something like
that. So map this onto like the news
cycle today. Like what is happening?
Where Where Where are there asset
liability mismatches? Like what what are
the nature of them?
>> Yeah. What's the implications? So
again, go back post COVID. That's when
the wealth space took off. So the
democratization of alternatives or
private capital, which by the way, just
to be clear, not against that.
>> Yeah.
What I think some of the factory models
that
um are out there
have
raised money in uh raised capital from
the wealth channel in
irresponsible ways. So first of all, in
general, you're taking an illiquid asset
and you're giving investors quarterly an
ability to get their money back
quarterly. They say semi-liquid. There's
no semi-liquid. Okay, there's no such
thing as semi-liquid. Like anyone that's
an investor that's been through a bunch
of cycles, there's liquid and then
there's illiquid because again going
back to the history of sort of the
wealth channel or individuals
uh or retail, it's the one thing we know
it's very pro-cyclical. When it's pro
when it's a pro-cyclical environment,
like it's easy to raise money and when
you're not and when there's problems or
dislocation like there is today, they
want their money back. So you basically
had mismatching of illiquid assets and
liabilities. So that's one part of it.
The second thing is that they would
raise these very narrow because narrow
narrow what I mean by narrow is it's
like just direct lending. Yeah. So, it's
not like you can invest in direct
lending and real estate and
infrastructure or in asset-based
finance. No, no, just very narrow. Like,
just direct lending or just asset-based
finance or just this strategy. That's a
narrow strategy. And maybe that's okay
if you raise the right amount of
capital. But, if you raise an unlimited
amount of capital where your investment
investing is dictated not on good
investments in the market, but basically
dictated by how much money you can
raise, there's there's never a governor
on how much money to raise. And And the
thing about these wealth vehicles, they
when they raise it, they have to invest
it right away. It's We call it inflow
investing. They have to invest it right
away. So, they raise as much money as
they can. And if they don't invest it
right away, it dilutes the return of
that vehicle. So, To ground this in
actual reality as much as possible,
we've talked about all these guardrails,
all these incentives, uh the the three
problems, like
all this stuff where sort of the system
structure begins to determine fate.
Yeah. Like, what is fate? What is
actually What's happening today? What's
happening today? So, what what's
happening today is there are these
vehicles called perpetual private BDCs.
These have been raised in the wealth
channel. So, individuals, wealthy,
massive one, they've been raised. And
again, in some cases, not all cases, in
very narrow strategies. So, just direct
lending or just private equity. And
really, the catalyst was this was
software and and AI. And also some of
the market volatility, but started to
question, you know,
the the quality of their portfolios. Or,
it could have just been market
volatility because of what's going on
outside of this where people want their
money back.
And there's a limit on how much money
people can ask for. And basically, a lot
of in the in the perpetual private BDC
space, the amount of money people have
asked for has exceeded what is the 5%
limit.
>> Yep.
And that's creating all the noise that
you're reading about.
>> What's the range of like so what's here?
Like I can imagine
one so what is like tough [__] like you
can't have your money back and world
keep spinning. Another is like something
dangerous and scary and systemic
because, you know, past financial crises
have tended to be downstream of some
domino, you know, like private BDCs or
whatever it [snorts] is, you know, each
time it's different. Like what do you
think the range of implications of all
this is before we talk about like what
the healthy is.
>> Yeah, I don't think this
is a systemic issue yet for two reasons.
One, we're only 5 years into this, so
it's early. And the second second thing
at least for now, there's a pretty
strong economic backdrop. There's
definitely risk to it. So, I don't think
this is
systemic. It could turn out that way,
but I don't that's actually not what I
think's going to happen. I do think
there needs to be a major
recalibration
of uh
behaviors in the way that people
approach this wealth channel cuz if you
go back to what we talked about earlier,
anytime society or financial system puts
you know, wealth or retail individuals
next to principal risk taking, if you
look throughout history,
there's that's where problems start to
happen. Most of it's been with
commercial banks cuz that's been the
primary pillar of the financial system,
but now with this new pillar and private
capital, it's starting to sort of touch
risk capital and it's starting to become
more asset liability mismatch. But when
you look at the quantum of the sort of
the the problem,
as at least as specifically relates to
this, it's pretty small in the grand
scheme of things. So, what's going on is
in private markets in the wealth
channel, very small allocations to to
private investments historically, 1 2%.
And
that channel is smart. They see that
value creation and returns are happening
without them in private markets. They
want access to it. Seems fair. That
thing that 2% is expected to go
wherever, 10 plus percent in the decade
to come. So I guess the question is like
how can we do it responsibly?
>> Let me say it this way. If you are going
to raise a narrow strategy, like just
direct lending or just private equity,
you need to govern the amount of inflows
that come in. So sometimes you just say
no. Maybe you have a waiting list, but
again, because flows come in in
pro-cyclical times, if you only have a
hundred million dollar
you know, vehicle, maybe it's always a
good time to to to invest. But if you
have a much larger vehicle, it just gets
really hard because maybe it's a good
time to invest, maybe it's not. And
that's why I think
where this will go responsibly, I think
you're going to have to have very wide
apertures because ultimately in every
ecosystem, whether it's direct lending
or private equity or real estate or
infrastructure, they go through supply
demand dynamics. Sometimes there's a
supply of capital is really high and
demand is low. That's probably not a
good time to invest. And sometimes
demand of capital is really high and
supply of capital is really low. That's
again, not certainly, but probably a
pretty good time to invest. And it
oscillates within each each ecosystem
all the time. So I just think you want a
wide aperture. But if you're going to do
that, you can't just all of a sudden
show up, which is probably what's going
to happen
this recap. Everyone's going to show up
and say, "Oh, I'm a multi-strategy
private capital fund. I'm going to do
whatever." Well, yeah, you got to be
able to do it, but you also got to have
the capabilities to be able to do that.
And there's a number of people that do,
but you can't just all of a sudden do
it. It's like a style of investing. And
I think those are kind of the key
attributes that I think will make up
responsible investing. But I think the
biggest thing is just being very up
front. When you want your money back,
like you have to assume it's like 2008
crisis, 1929. And if you're comfortable
keeping it invested, then you're
probably suitable investor. As your
business scales up, everything gets more
complex, especially your compliance and
security needs. With so many tools
offering [music] band-aids and patches,
it's unfortunately far too easy for
something to slip through the cracks.
Fortunately, Vanta is a powerful tool
designed to simplify and automate your
security work and deliver a single
source of truth for compliance and risk.
There's a reason that Ramp, Cursor, and
Snowflake all use Vanta. It frees them
to focus on building amazing
differentiated products, knowing that
compliance and security are under
control. Learn more [music] at
vanta.com/invest.
I know firsthand how complex the tech
stack is for asset management firms.
[music]
And seemingly every new tool and data
source makes the problem even worse,
adding more complexity, more headcount,
and more risk. Ridgeline offers a better
way forward. One unified platform that
automates away the complexity across
portfolio accounting, reconciliation,
reporting, trading, compliance, and
more, all at scale. Ridgeline is
revolutionizing investment management,
helping ambitious firms scale faster,
operate smarter, [music] and stay ahead
of the curve. See what Ridgeline can
unlock for your firm. Schedule a demo at
ridgeline.ai. [music]
You said before that maybe system three
could be like the Goldilocks like
scenario. It seems like uh I I was
always interested in around financial
crises like moral hazard, uh you know,
as a topic. And the socialization or uh
spreading of this risk that one person
takes to make more money and then and
they'll be bailed out or something like
this.
It It seems like this mismatch, this
asset-liability mismatch, is something
that in the current system, maybe it's
cyclical and it waxes and wanes, but
like people are selfish people are going
to take advantage of the ability to
raise more money forever unless the
responsibility is like
I don't know, mandated or regulated or
more clearly laid out. Like, do you
think we have some evolution still to do
to create the Goldilocks scenario? And I
think that's what really needs to be
thought about where you won't and by the
way, I think that's going to happen as
part of this recalibration process, but
that is a much better outcome. There can
be this good legislation, but there's a
risk that it's not the right guardrail
and it's not good for competitiveness
and it creates like the next crisis. The
best answer is a market mechanism like
you have within institutional investors
where if you do irresponsible things or
you're not a good investor, if you
change your business model, they're
going to punish you by not giving you
money for your next fund. Yep. If I turn
all of this into ideas or guidelines for
people running investment firms or who
want to launch an investment firm or
something, what are the right principles
to take away? Obviously, one is keep
your liabilities and your assets well
matched. Like that's a major one that's
like anyone can do and maybe you have to
work a little harder to raise money, but
like you'll you'll be thankful for it. A
second is like, you know, maintain an
underwriting standard that's
extraordinary or however you want to
define it. And any other like major
advice that you'd give to people running
investment firms or just like principles
you have for building Six Street that
kind of flow from all this history and
thinking? First is like what's your
clarity of purpose? Yep. You know,
what's your day one clarity of purpose?
Is that staying consistent over time?
Like is your clarity of purpose to raise
a bunch of liabilities or is it to drive
good returns for your investors? Maybe
it's both, maybe you can do that. Maybe
some firms can do that, but what is your
clarity of purpose? And this something
we talk a lot about at Six Street is
that if you look at all the great
companies
that have been around for a long time,
they got one thing right.
Is they never forgot what their purpose
was, which is to serve their customers.
It's enticing to uh
you know, to raise a bunch of money.
It's it's enticing once you raise it to
invest a lot of money, but doesn't mean
that you have to do it. I mean, Six
Street, we're multi-strategy private
capital firm. We do a bunch of things.
One of the things we do is direct
lending. We have one of the best track
records. We've been here longer than in
direct lending like I started the direct
lending business at 2001
um when there was only two of us. So,
we've watched this and we could have
gone to the wealth channel and raised
all the same vehicles because of our
track record and we have, you know how
many dollars of you know perpetual
private BDCs we have?
>> Zero. Exactly zero. It's not that we
couldn't have, we just didn't think it
was the right thing and we didn't think
it was consistent with our clarity of
purpose and that's why we didn't do it.
It's easy to get FOMO. I just think you
just got to block out that noise and it
always comes back to first principles of
clarity of purpose
what are your values and if you stay
consistent with that judging by the best
companies that have been around for a
long time, that's sort of your pathway
to you know building a great company
that's going to be here for a long time,
not short-termism. Yeah, again back to
the news cycle, there's sort of this
thing of lots of firms that manage lots
of uh private credit strategies, SMA
exposure, etc. Some of their stock
prices are really hurting.
And we've talked about all the reasons
ad nauseam for the mismatch, etc. What
do you think happens in private credit
land? I think and hope that
this is going to be a a recalibration.
Um people are are going to readopt
you know more prudent underwriting.
I think people uh in the industry um
will change behaviors and by the way, in
some cases the market will change their
behaviors cuz you may not be able to
raise more capital. So, the market
mechanism I think will will work.
And then obviously and this is a
hopeful, I think it'll stabilize and
hopefully the one the best thing about
the current moment is that this happened
not in a deep recession.
It happened when the economy is pretty
relatively helpful. definitely risk out
there to be worried about, but this
would be a much different. If you think
about redemptions and a lot of these
wealth vehicles, if it were a dish like
a distressed environment, the
redemptions would be two, three x what
they are. Yeah.
So, to me this is a gift to the industry
to recalibrate, and there's a lot of
smart people in our industry, a lot of
great investors, and I think the
industry will recalibrate. And then, if
you think stepping back from the
American financial system, commercial
banks, you could have a really powerful
system far, you know, supporting
economic growth with commercial banks
providing one pillar, safer, you know,
good guardrails and private capital
providing the risk capital. That's a
pretty good system, and I think if we
get that right, it's really going to set
up America to be for really optimize
economic growth, and that's
that's what I'm hopeful about. You
alluded to AI and software being one of
the, you know, early dominoes that kind
of got this whole discussion rolling and
people's redemptions and reactions and
things. It seems like if you think about
creative destruction as a force driving
the US experiment, you know, since its
inception, we are we are facing Talk
about facing a tiger. We are facing like
a hardcore period of creative
destruction. Yeah. How do you think
about that given the open wide mandate
of Sixth Street, your ability to go put
your capital and your customers' capital
in so many different places? How Just
talk through like the opportunity set
today. Of course, I want to hear what
you think about like AI and software. I
can't help myself. Um yeah, what do you
This just feels like such a
uh what a time to be alive, but also,
you know,
opportunity and danger. I mean, there's
lots of opportunity. I mean, I I live on
the LLMs. I play with them an hour
Actually, my wife makes fun of me
because I'm constantly playing with my
friend Claude or my friend Chad or my
friend Jim and I. Uh I'm always
>> your friend Grok. No, Grok [laughter] I
I I actually play with them all um
because I like to just see how I I like
to ask him the same question to see how
they answer it differently and just just
to try to get a feel for it, but you
know, big believer on
uh the productivity opportunity.
Um there's a lot of good with it, but
there's definitely
risk on the transition. But getting you
know, you mentioned software like
everyone's
you know, that was one of the catalysts
that sort of got us into the current
moment, but everyone's so so focused on
software. I think what people having
lived in Silicon Valley, I know you
spend a lot of time there. This is not
just software. This is every industry.
Um because once one company in any
industry figures out how to actually use
it as a tool and really figures out how
to use their
agentic capabilities and drive higher
margins. If you're one of the companies
that's a slow adopter and you're not
active, you're going to
you're going to have some of the same
problems that people perceive the
overall software industry to have today.
So, it's not just software. It's across
everything. But look, it's the best
thing one of the best things about the
the American project is creative
destruction because it allows for
prudent allocation of capital to the
right places that are going to drive the
right outcomes.
>> If you think about the uh
the unfolding set of opportunities that
it creates, one of the categories that
you and I always talk about that I'm so
interested in it's just like one's own
development. And the highly adaptable
people seem like they're going to be set
up for lots of success in in this
environment.
What how do you think about your team
and making sure and I know you have a
team that's like very long tenure that
tends to be at 6K for a career?
How do you think about their development
and new things that you can do as the
leader to make sure that like they are
all dynamic as things change really
fast? Like I know you're playing with
the LLMs all the time, but like
this is an important part of your job,
your team. How are you thinking about
it?
>> The
The good thing is because
when we hire someone, we're we're
looking for a lot of things. But, two of
the things that we're looking for, are
they an open architecture person? Like,
can they play tennis, what we call
playing tennis, bounce different ideas,
even when you disagree with someone? And
the second thing is, are they a learner?
Surprisingly, we track all the AI usage
on the LLM models. Like, our usage
across our entire firm is it's off the
charts. One, because of the types of
people we hire, but I just think in
general, and stepping away from 6th
Street, is that if you're not adaptive
in this environment, and you're not a
learner, like literally committed to
learning every day and improving
yourself every day, you're going to you
have the risk of getting lost in what's
happening and about to happen in a more
accentuated way. I have a off-the-wall
one for you. It's been deeply impactful
on me. Can you explain this like paper
one-sheet system for how you get
everything done and and like track what
you do? I actually
did a presentation to our entire firm on
personal organization systems, because I
think
as an as an investor,
as a business person, the scarcest thing
you have is time. And one of the most
important skill sets is your dynamic
prioritization of that of that time on
the highest impact things. So, we always
talk about return on time. And what my
personal organization system does, I
call it the brain, is I literally try to
get the way my brain is structured
on one sheet of paper, so that I can all
the all my
important priorities, you know, people,
businesses, investment themes. I mean,
it changes over time based on what's
needed for me, cuz my job changes every
year, cuz I have to evolve. Um
I try to get my brain on and it allows
me to
dynamically prioritize where the highest
return on my time is.
And that's number one. And the second
thing it allows me to do is that I
capture so that I never have loose ends.
I try to always like follow up on
everything, uh be proactive about
things. I just think proactive is like a
key thing. But it allows me I I like
it's very clear what my top five
strategic priorities, all the tactical
stuff. And I'm constantly looking at it,
updating it. And I I do it all by hand.
And cuz I think some people like for me
I have to actually put pen on paper. And
I do that about once my sheet fills up
of all my tactical stuff, like the small
stuff I have to do, I start a new sheet.
And and and then I write literally all
of it and it takes me like an hour. I
generally do it on a Sunday. And there's
never a time I actually go through that
process on a Sunday where I don't
connect two or three dots or think of a
new idea. And that's why on the second
sheet, which I can't remember if I
showed you this.
>> hit the right brain, right? I then I
have my right brain sheet. That's my
left brain. And then I have my right
brain sheet, which is the second page,
which is all my creative ideas, themes,
business building ideas, people, better
leadership, just whatever comes to mind.
This you know thinking about by the way
the current moment, like I literally
start thinking about like why are we
here? How do we get here? That's kind of
how I started to really dive into
history. And I just write stuff down and
I track it and I've done that for you
know 25 years. So I have all my right
brain thoughts over 25 years. And what
happens is I'll go back and I'll look at
them. I literally go every year at the
end of the year I go back and read all
my right brain thoughts. And sometimes
there ideas that I had like from 10
years ago, from 15 years ago that
surface today and become relevant today.
So I try to get my left brain on the
first page, my right brain on the
second, and then I try to get them
working together. And again, it just
helps me like see things I wanted just a
clear thinking on so I can try to see
the world not only for kind of what it
looks like today, what it's been, but
also kind of
where it might go and how can 6th Street
sort of be part of that.
>> One of the things that stuck out to me
seeing the actual sheet where there's
sort of I'm thinking about the left
brain sheet where there's sort of like
different boxes.
>> Yeah.
I'm curious what the different boxes are
and one of the things that I found very
powerful was that when you run out of
like one of the one of the segments is a
list of people to call. So there's like
it was a crazy list. It was like
shitload of people and then like tons of
strike outs.
>> Yeah. And when you run out of space, you
then copy it to another page, but you
also copy over all the stuff that is
like lower turnover I guess I would call
it.
>> Um and that act is like a big part of
just like The process
of that
>> The the the process of that and so
looking is part of it, but the best
ideas come out of actually the process.
So so what are the other segments of
that first page? So there's a list of
people to call. There what are the other
there's like five or six boxes I can't
remember what they are. Like what what
are those boxes? I think I told this
last time. We have everyone in our firm
do a personal business plan.
>> Yeah. Like my personal business plan at
the end of the year I've done for I
don't know 25 30 years like forever. It
takes me like three weeks to do my
personal business plan and that's why I
was saying to you last time I was like
we spend all this time evaluating
companies. Do they have a business plan
or not? And then most people do you have
a business plan for yourself? They don't
have one. That's why we make everyone in
our firm do personal business plans. But
from that personal business plan I do at
the end of the year I figure out I get a
lot of clarity just from reading going
back to stuff I wrote. What are my top
five priorities of how I can drive the
most impact to our firm, our investors.
What are those absolute
complete clarity on what those five
things are and I have a box for each of
those five things. So that's kind of
like
five boxes on each of those things. Then
I have like high priorities cuz again
those have different cadence to them.
Yeah. Yeah, everything has a different
cadence, which is why I think you have
to see everything together. The boxes on
the page change every year.
Just like our themes every year change.
Like everything has to change every year
cuz it goes back to adapting cuz the
world's always changing so quickly. If
you're not adapting yourself, then
you're going to get lost in this world.
So, I'll have my five strategic
priorities, my time, I'll have people
like really people I really want to
focus on. This could be internal,
external. I also have on there my health
cuz I despite drinking this, I think
about cuz I actually think I have to be
healthy to be able to do my job.
>> Yeah. What would be an example of
something in the health that gets
written down in health? I've got on
there um
uh vitamin D. Like I'm very focused on
vitamin D. I've had old soccer injury,
so I'm focused on left hip mobility. So,
this year's big year is like my my hip
mobility. I mean, this
>> But it's something you just see every
day and it's just a
>> day. Yeah, everything. Like it's also
the personal side, so I keep balance. I
think it is an intention system, but
it's also it's also a return on time
system and an ability to dynamically
prioritize. If you talk to younger
people, you know, who are just coming up
through the business, even some older
people can't still don't know how to
prioritize their time. It's really hard
to do cuz you literally could spend all
your time on one thing.
>> Yeah. So, how to like manage the time
and just getting being able to see that
and you know, in your brain or in the
matrix, I think you know, that that's
kind of how I think about it. Another
thing that uh you really last time we
talked really stuck in my head was um I
just turned 40 and we were talking about
the sort of opportunity you have from
age 40 to 50, which got me wondering
about 20 to 30 and 30 to 40.
I If you If you think back on the major
like eras of building and managing a
life's work and a career,
and and tied to specific ages, what have
you learned? 20 to 30 for me was uh
education.
Uh
just almost like business school cuz I
didn't go to business. Just learning
just as much as I could.
Um asking as many dumb questions as
possible. What are your 20s, you don't
you think you know stuff, but if you
haven't been through cycles or made a
lot of mistakes and seen other people
make mistakes and see people make good
decisions and what a good long-term
decision, short-term decision is, you
don't really know anything from your
20s. 30 to 40, you're kind of you know,
you're you're incredibly
ambitious. You're still learning, but
you're like trying to prove yourself,
you know, you're out there and you're
you know, we start I started 6th Street
when with my partners when I was
three or 34, so I didn't know what I
didn't know. I mean, I
knew a lot, but it's like you're you're
going through that, but you haven't made
enough mistakes yet to like really sort
of refine everything, sort of your your
craft. And you get to 40 or 50 and 40 or
50 is like
it's like It's all together.
>> You've made if you've if you've spent
time, you know, learning and again
continue to learn, you've made enough
mistakes, you kind of really know who
you are at that point, know who you are
as an investor and how you approach
things. It's like
prime time.
And then you get to 50 and then, you
know, you're
you know, you're you're you're trying to
really focus on
being a mentor, developing the next
generation, and just trying to provide
that voice in the room not only in terms
of investing, but also
leadership, management, and really just
trying to be a teacher to your team, but
also a learner cuz I still learn a lot
from them. But, you know, 40 to 50,
you're in the
you're it's go time. Yeah, it's go time.
>> In go time, one of the questions that
I've been asking everybody cuz I'm just
selfishly curious about it. At this age
feels like the right time to ask is
around the measurement of success.
And Kevin Kelly, the former the one of
the founders of Wired magazine has this
amazing idea which is like your success
definition should be extremely bespoke
to you. Like traditional measures of
success are are traps, money, power,
fame, etc. And I heard someone a founder
recently say something like he measures
success through like the degree of
radical self-respect. Like success means
complete self-respect. And obviously
that then means lots of other things.
But I'm so curious how
if I'm going into primetime or
something, I don't want to waste that.
And so the objective function of
primetime needs to be like success.
That's good way to sum it. Let's hit the
mistake that
you know, people fall into is this whole
idea of money, fame, fortune.
That's a cup. Once you start to
prioritize that, that's a cup that will
never get filled. You keep trying to
fill the cup and the cup keeps getting
bigger and bigger.
That cup never gets full. So
I think that's one of the problems I
think people make in our industry is
that they think that the the the cup and
I even people say oh it's easy for you
to say where you are now. This is
something my dad taught me when I was
like 10 years old. So this is not new. I
can say it's not this is what I it was
never the thing. For me it's like
I
I just want to do great
things, be excellent and do it with
great people that share my values and do
things the right way.
And that's on the business side. And I
want to do all that in a way and be
excellent. It is it can not competing
against anyone else, competing against
ourselves but do so in a way where I'm
the best dad, the best husband
and you know, it's
getting one without the other
I just think you're going to be 80 years
old, you're looking at your mirror and
what was the purpose of life? There's no
purpose. Like the purpose of life for me
and again it's certainly not about the
the cup. That's definitely never been
it. It's about all those relationships
you form and those experiences you go
through with people. Like when you're
80, 85 years old, you're looking back,
hopefully I'm healthy because I looked
at my sheet a lot of times and it's
those relationships and those
experiences that I think drive to a
fulfilled life. And obviously it starts
with your family, but you know, I have a
lot of Hawaiian friends, your Hui. Hui
is like a term for like your your group,
your posse. It's like having those
experiences of climbing up the mountain
together and that's
to me what it's all about. And if you
are around the right people, you have
the clarity of purpose, you have the
right values, you have the right
culture, and you're going up the
mountain together, it's so fun.
And you never have to like question
first principles, how you're going to do
business, trying to do the right way,
and it's it's called, you know, what we
call clean living.
But again, doing that at the expense of
not spending time with your family, I
think that would be pretty unfulfilling
to me.
>> Last time I got to ask you my
traditional closing questions. I have to
come for the new one this time. One of
my favorite things from our first
discussion, we you sent us the visual,
which I love, is the is the concept of
facing the tiger. Maybe you can remind
us what that means. But literally like
when you I thought you were kidding in
the conversation, but like literally off
the elevator is a giant tiger in your
office, which is so funny. Um I like the
principle a lot, but I'm also curious
what it means to apply that principle
for you and Sixth Street um today in
this fascinating, dynamic environment.
>> Face the tiger, it's one of like the
core ethos of of Sixth Street, which is
there's hard things in this world, we're
going to make mistakes, we're going to
have problems,
but
when those problems happen, instead of
pointing fingers, it's like we have just
a saying from day one of our firm is
that we look at the problems head on, we
look at them together, and we don't run
from them, we run to them. We run at
right at them.
Um and that's what face the tiger is.
And I think
for the environment we're in, and this
is what I
literally told our entire firm, is that
we're in a world that the pace of change
is rapidly accelerating. And if you
think the pace of change is accelerating
now, it's it's going to just can
continue and it continue to accelerate,
which is why, by the way, from an
investing standpoint, going back to what
we said earlier, the idea that you're
going to have a narrow investment
strategy when the world's changing so
much
>> Crazy. you're going to have oscillating
supply and demand dynamics of good time,
bad time. Like that's just crazy to
raise our two narrow strategy unless you
like put a governor on the amount of
capital raises. But I think the biggest
thing when you look at the human being
is human beings in general don't like
change. There are small percentage that
like thrive in chaos and love it and
step up like Michael Jordan, like he
love chaos, he go down, like it's like
his heart rate's low and, you know, hit
the hit hit a game-winning shot. But
most human beings don't like change. And
as we start to go through
this
pace of change, there's obviously a lot
of anxiety. Is AI going to take my job?
Is it not? And our whole thing is like,
you can sit there and be anxious about
things or worry about things. You can be
like, "Hey, this is what it is. The
world's changing. We got to face the
tiger. It's going to change whether we
like it or not. It's going to happen.
Yeah, there's stuff from AI, but what
are you going to do about it?" And
that's what we say to people. It's like,
"Look, we got to face the tiger and just
remember, you get one life. Do you want
to be average or do you want to be
excellent?" And that's kind of how we
talk to people. So we just you keep
talking about it enough and they sort of
get in the right head space. So when
change happens or there's disruption or
something goes wrong, they've got sort
of a tool that they can use
let's say face the tiger to be able to
approach it. And we try to just get that
in our firm. So And again, I think I
said this last time when problems happen
or something is wrong, we're like, most
people we're like, "Good. Let's go."
It's like game time. Let's go. And
that's kind of just
the way we've been since day one and I
like to some extent the way we are as
people.
I wish I could do this with you every
year. I hope we do. Thank you so much
for your time. Thank you so much,
Patrick. Appreciate it.
Your finance team isn't losing money on
big mistakes. It's leaking through a
thousand tiny decisions nobody's
watching. Ramp puts guardrails [music]
on spending before it happens. Real-time
limits, automatic rules, zero
firefighting. Try it at [music]
ramp.com/invest.
As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth for
security [music] and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
in scale, [music] enabling faster
growth, smarter operations, and a
competitive edge. Visit
ridgelineapps.com [music] to see what
they can unlock for your firm.
Every investment firm is unique, and
generic AI doesn't understand your
process.
>> [music]
>> Rogo does. It's an AI platform built
specifically for Wall Street, connected
to your data, understanding your
process, and producing real outputs.
Check them out at rogo.ai/invest.
The best AI and software companies from
OpenAI to Cursor to Perplexity use
WorkOS to become enterprise-ready
overnight, not in months. Visit
workos.com to skip [music] the
unglamorous infrastructure work and
focus on your product.